# Lab: Diagnosing unknown issues

In this lab, you are asked to diagnose an unknown issue. Developers relying on a MongoDB deployment you administer are complaining that database is taking longer and longer to respond. Additionally, the server which the current primary is on crashes after an unspecified amount of time. This happens on every server.

You can download the required dataset, companies.json, here.

Let's go ahead and setup the environment.

First, launch a replica set using mtools with the name "m312rs"

```
cd m312-vagrant-env
vagrant up
vagrant ssh
mlaunch --replicaset --name "m312rs" --port 30000 --wiredTigerCacheSizeGB 0.5 --oplogSize 100
```

The following step is to download the necessary handouts and make them available in your m312 virtual machine:

```
cp Downloads/lab1_chapter4.py m312-vagrant-env/shared
cp Downloads/companies.json m312-vagrant-env/dataset
```

The command line example is set for Unix but a simple copy of this file will suffice

Next, we will load the dataset into our replica set. Let's load the data into a collection named companies

```
vagrant ssh
mongoimport --host m312rs/m312 --port 30000 -d m312 -c companies /dataset/companies.json
```

Now execute the homework script

```
/shared/lab1_chapter4.py
```

Open a new terminal window and make sure to ssh in to your vagrant box.
Let the script run for a minute and begin checking the replica set. What is the primary issue?

- {w: "majority"} is being specified and it's taking too long for the mongods to acknowledge writes.
- The replica set has no primary.
- **The connection pool continually grows, ultimately starving the server of resources.**
- The amount of operations has caused the mongods to reach the CPU limit for the server.
