# Lab - Configure a Sharded Cluster

In this lab, you will turn your replica set into one shard in a sharded cluster. To begin your sharded cluster configuration in MongoDB, you will need to do the following:

1. Bring up config servers
2. Bring up mongos
3. Enable sharding on m103-repl
4. Add m103-repl as the primary shard in the cluster

1. **Bring up the config server replica set (CSRS)**

Config servers store all of the metadata for a sharded cluster, making them a necessary part of any sharded cluster. In this lab you will bring up a replica set of three config servers (m103-csrs) to store this metadata.

Here are the requirements for all three config servers:

<table border="1" class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col width="11%">
<col width="30%">
<col width="30%">
<col width="30%">
</colgroup>
<thead valign="bottom">
<tr><th class="head">Type</th>
<th class="head">Primary</th>
<th class="head">Secondary</th>
<th class="head">Secondary</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody valign="top">
<tr><td>Port</td>
<td>26001</td>
<td>26002</td>
<td>26003</td>
</tr>
<tr><td>DBPath</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/db/csrs1</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/db/csrs2</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/db/csrs3</td>
</tr>
<tr><td>LogPath</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/db/csrs1/mongod.log</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/db/csrs2/mongod.log</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/db/csrs3/mongod.log</td>
</tr>
<tr><td>replSetName</td>
<td>m103-csrs</td>
<td>m103-csrs</td>
<td>m103-csrs</td>
</tr>
<tr><td>clusterRole</td>
<td>configsvr</td>
<td>configsvr</td>
<td>configsvr</td>
</tr>
<tr><td>keyFile</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/pki/m103-keyfile</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/pki/m103-keyfile</td>
<td>/var/mongodb/pki/m103-keyfile</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

```
sharding:
  clusterRole: configsvr
replication:
  replSetName: m103-csrs
security:
  keyFile: /var/mongodb/pki/m103-keyfile
net:
  bindIp: localhost,192.168.103.100
  port: 26001
systemLog:
  destination: file
  path: /var/mongodb/db/csrs1/mongod.log
  logAppend: true
processManagement:
  fork: true
storage:
  dbPath: /var/mongodb/db/csrs1
```

You may use this config file for your primary config server, but you will need to make two more to complete the replica set.

Notice that the CSRS has the same keyFile as the data-bearing replica set m103-repl. Because m103-repl uses internal keyfile authentication, all other mongod and mongos processes in your cluster must use internal keyfile authentication with the same keyfile.

When initializing m103-csrs, remember that keyfile authentication implies client authentication. This means that while no users are configured, the CSRS will only allow connections through the localhost.

As a reminder, here are the login credentials of the admin user from previous labs:

- Role: root on admin database
- Username: m103-admin
- Password: m103-pass

**2. Bring up the mongos**

Once the CSRS is running, you can start up the mongos process. Here is the config file for the mongos:

```
sharding:
  configDB: m103-csrs/192.168.103.100:26001
security:
  keyFile: /var/mongodb/pki/m103-keyfile
net:
  bindIp: localhost,192.168.103.100
  port: 26000
systemLog:
  destination: file
  path: /var/mongodb/db/mongos.log
  logAppend: true
processManagement:
  fork: true
```

If your CSRS already has the m103-admin user when mongos is started, mongos will inherit that user. You will be able to authenticate to mongos immediately as m103-admin.

**3. Reconfigure m103-repl**

To enable m103-repl to be a shard, you must reconfigure the nodes in your replica set with the following lines added to each of their config files:

```
sharding:
  clusterRole: shardsvr
storage:
  wiredTiger:
     engineConfig:
        cacheSizeGB: .1
```

The clusterRole: shardsvr section tells mongod that the node can be used in a sharded cluster.

The cacheSizeGB: .1 section restricts the memory usage of each running mongod. Note that this is not good practice. However, in order to run a sharded cluster inside a virtual machine with only 2GB of memory, certain adjustments must be made.

All three nodes of the m103-repl replica set will need to be restarted with sharding enabled, but given that this is a replica set, you can do this operation without any downtime. This replica set will become the primary shard in your sharded cluster.

**4. Add m103-repl as the first shard**

Once m103-repl has sharding enabled, you can add it as the primary shard with:

```
sh.addShard("m103-repl/192.168.103.100:27001")
```

Check the output of sh.status() to make sure it's included as a shard.

Now run the validation script in your vagrant and outside the mongo shell and enter the validation key you receive below. If you receive an error, it should give you some idea of what went wrong.

```
vagrant@m103:~$ validate_lab_first_sharded_cluster
```

**5a57de1cb1575291ce6e560a**
