# Lab - Documents in Chunks

**Lab Prerequisites**

This lab assumes that the m103.products collection is sharded on sku. If you sharded on name instead, you must reimport the dataset and shard it on sku. Here are the instructions to do this:

1. Drop the collection m103.products and reimport the dataset:

```
mongoimport --drop /dataset/products.json --port 26000 -u "m103-admin" \
-p "m103-pass" --authenticationDatabase "admin" \
--db m103 --collection products
```

2. Create an index on sku:

```
db.products.createIndex({"sku":1})
```

3. Enable sharding on m103 if not enabled:

```
sh.enableSharding("m103")
```

4. Shard the collection on sku:

```
db.adminCommand({shardCollection: "m103.products", key: {sku: 1}})
```

Once you've sharded your cluster on sku, any queries that use sku will be routed by mongos to the correct shards.

**Lab Description**

In this lab, you are going to use the sharded cluster you created earlier in this lesson and derive which chunk a given document resides.

Connect to the mongos and authenticate as the m103-admin user you created in an earlier lab.

Once connected, execute the following operation:

```
db.getSiblingDB("m103").products.find({"sku" : 21572585 })
```

Locate the chunk that the specified document resides on and pass the full chunk ID to the validation script provided in the handout. You need to run the validation script in your vagrant and outside the mongo shell.

hint sh.status() does not provide the chunk ID that you need to report for this lab. Look in the config database for the collection that stores all chunk information. Think in ranges - you want to find the chunk whose range is min <= key < max.

```
vagrant@m103:~$ validate_lab_document_chunks <chunk-id>
```

Enter the validation key you receive below. The script returns verbose errors that should provide you with guidance on what went wrong.

**5ac28a604c7baf1f5c25d51b**
