# Lab - Detect Scatter Gather Queries

**Lab Prerequisites**

This lab assumes that the m103.products collection is sharded on sku. If you sharded on name instead, you must reimport the dataset and shard it on sku. Here are the instructions to do this:

1. Drop the collection m103.products and reimport the dataset:

```
mongoimport --drop /dataset/products.json --port 26000 -u "m103-admin" \
-p "m103-pass" --authenticationDatabase "admin" \
--db m103 --collection products
```

2. Create an index on sku:

```
db.products.createIndex({"sku":1})
```

3. Enable sharding on m103 if not enabled:

```
sh.enableSharding("m103")
```

4. Shard the collection on sku:

```
db.adminCommand({shardCollection: "m103.products", key: {sku: 1}})
```

Once you've sharded your cluster on sku, any queries that use sku will be routed by mongos to the correct shards.

**Lab Description**

In this lab, you will use the output of the explain() command to distinguish between targeted queries (sent to specific shards) and scatter gather queries (sent to all shards).

Here are a few definitions regarding the output of explain():

- SHARDING_FILTER: The step performed by mongos used to make sure that documents fetched from a particular shard are supposed to be from that shard. To do this, mongos compares the shard key of the document with the metadata on the config servers.
- IXSCAN: An index scan, used to scan through index keys.
- FETCH: A document fetch, used to retrieve an entire document because one or more of the fields is necessary.

You can find more information about explain() in the official MongoDB documentation.

Now, given the explain() output of the following two queries:

**Query 1:**

```
db.products.explain("executionStats").find({"sku": 23153496})
```

**Query 2:**

```
db.products.explain("executionStats").find({"shippingWeight": 1.00})
```

Assuming the only indexes on this collection are { _id: 1 } and { sku: 1 }, which of the following statements are true?



- Query 2 uses the shard key.
- **Query 1 performs an index scan before the sharding filter.**
- **Query 2 performs a collection scan.**