# Ticket: Text and Subfield Search

**User Story**

"As a user, I'd like to be able to search movies by cast members, genre, or perform a text search of the plot summary, full plot, and title."

**Task**

For this ticket, you will need to modify the method genreSearchQuery in moviesDAO.js to allow the following movie search criteria:

genres: finds all movies that match the search genres
The methods for text and cast searches are already implemented:

textSearchQuery : performs a text search in the movies collection
castSearchQuery: finds movies that include any of the specified cast
You just need to construct the query in genreSearchQuery that queries the movies collection by genre. This method should project all document fields.

A text index was created for you when you restored the collections with mongorestore, so these queries will be performant once they are implemented.

**Hint**

Check the implementation of similar formats of search criteria - the genres query should be similar.
MFlix Functionality

Once you complete this ticket, the UI will allow movie searches by members of the cast, movie genres, movie title, and plot summary.

**Testing and Running the Application**

Make sure to look at the tests in text_subfield.test.js to understand what is expected.

You can run the unit tests for this ticket with:

```
npm test -t text-subfield
```

Once the unit tests are passing, run the application with:

```
npm start
```

Now proceed to the status page to run the full suite of integration tests and get your validation code.

After passing the relevant tests, what is the validation code for Text and Subfield Search?

**5a96a6a29c453a40d04922cc**
