# Lab: Building an Index in the Foreground in Production

In this lab, you're going to simulate a foreground index build, in production.

Setup:

- Download the handouts, and unpack. Place the following in your vagrant VM's shared directory:
    - set_up_building_index_in_foreground.sh
    - building_index_in_foreground.py
- Download and unpack the employees.zip dataset and place it in your vagrant's /shared directory.
- Run set_up_building_index_in_foreground.sh from the /shared directory within your VM, which will do each of the following:
    - Kill any mongod server processes running in the VM
    - Delete the ~/data directory
    - Start a replica set listening on ports 30000, 30001, and 30002.
    - Ensure that the server on port 30000 has the highest priority
    - Sleep for 20 seconds to ensure that a Primary has been elected
    - mongoimport the employees.json file into the m312.employees namespace.
- Next, you'll want to simulate your application, and trigger your index build. If you've set everything up as described here, run building_index_in_foreground.py.

While this is going on, feel free to run mongostat against your server to get a feel for what's going on while your "application" is running.

The python script will do the following:

Your job is to go in and find the index build, plus any evidence of long-running read/update operations that occur as a result of the index build. Be careful not to mistake other operations (such as the mongoimport) for the index build.

Note:

You may find it helpful to rotate your log files , expecially if you run the python script more than once.

To demonstrate that you've identified both the index build, and the long-running operations, answer the following question:

When do the long-running operations begin to appear in the log files, based on their timestamps?

- More than a minute before the index build began.
- Less than one second before the index build began.
- Less than one second after the index build began.
- More than one second after the index build began, and also more than one second before the index build ended.
- Less than one second before the index build ended.
- **Less than one second after the index build ended.**
- More than one second after the index build ended.
- More than a minute after the index build ended.
